---
title:	"Secret"
date:   2012-02-02
tags:	books
auth:	Rhonda Byrne
read:	2012-02-02
ad:	<iframe src="http://rcm.amazon.com/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=FFFFFF&IS2=1&npa=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=FF0000&t=wojcadamkoszh-20&o=1&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=1582701709" style="width:120px;height:240px;" scrolling="no" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" frameborder="0"></iframe>
---

This is where the story with "new school" Hill-alike books started. This
book wouldn't have been such a big and significant step on my reading list,
however:

+ it was recommended to me by my mother, who got it by accident and
suggested I may like it
+ it was first book of that kind that I've read
+ in the Polish edition of this book a lot of other authors of similar books
were mentioned...

So the book talks about what I could now call "typical positive thinking"
methodology, meaning: motivation and habit of trying to achieve your
precisely stated goal is all there is to be successful.

In general, I think the last point from the list above was very interesting.
I seem to recall that the book made a very good impression on me, since the
general concept of will and power of your own thinking is something that
suits my atheistic point of view on the world. But I was impressed by number
of authors that somehow contribute to these methods.

Several authors were mentioned, and to this day I don't know anybody from
the list, except the one parson - Bob Proctor.

The only reason is that I think it was the only single person that had
something on YouTube. I didn't like it much, unlike his biography from
Byrne's book:

***"Bob Proctor's wisdom came to him through lineage of great teachers..."***

So here I was -- being introduced to the 2 big names of all time..

So Rhonda's book was great in terms of its content, however I must honestly
say introducting me to Napoleon Hill and Earl Nightingale might be the
biggest contribution this book did to me. I seem to recall right after
finishing the book and reading the cover, I found series of video lectures
on YouTube straight from the Mr Hill, and due to excellent quality of the
recordings, I soon learned who guru is..

