---
title:	"What would Google do?"
auth:	Jeff Jervis
read:	2013-04-01
---




This is a pure propaganda!

Reading this thing lead to mixed feelings, however I consider the overall
experience -- the aftertaste -- to be positive. Praising Google for pretty
much every single action in the history of its operation not necessarily
agrees with my vision of the Internet, but author's points are valid.

Google made a huge impact on the relationship between a customer and the
company. First of all when I started to use Google it felt more like an
institution, than a company, since the main thing -- the "www.google.com" --
didn't have advertisements and other annoying and troublesome usability
thingies, that designers from other search shops *absolutely* have to add.

So Google started just from that -- useful search site.

I started to feel like something wrong was going on when Google opened
Gmail. Its advertising was perfect advertising--service available only to a
selected group of customers. And only through references. This just makes
people sweat and spit and choke and fall into brainless loop of thinking,
who might have some free invites left. I don't remember exactly, but I think
you could send out only 5 invites in general. So Gmail invite was a crucial
resource.  So yeah--I started to feel like Google's customer. Even though
you can spot weird thing in getting tons of GBs of free space, nobody could
resist.

And then they came--personalized ads based on what you're sending to your
friends, and seeing personalized items on your company's computer. This is
getting pretty bad. Can author see that?

Anyway--book is about a business model in the New Information Age. Think of
a cute girl with Emo makeup. You want to innovate, and here he is--Jarvis
giving you recipes from his observations.

In the new era of Internet it looks like it's all about networking. Started
from Facebook, there are tons of tons of sites where you can meet selected
group of people of your interest. Wanna meet people growing persian
hamsters? I'm pretty sure there's a Meetup group for that.

New Internet is about collaboration--instead of selling a product, sell a
platform. And have other people develop for this platform. This is very hard
to resist, and even such a weird ANSI C retard like myself is teased by
Google's AppEngine or Microsoft's Azure.

Like Larry Ellison said: there was this lazy, foggy day in which somebody
somewhere figured out: I don't want a server, disk, networks, cables,
switches, operating systems, MB/s. I just want to use the software to do the
job. Google is just that. The way I think about modern software architecture
is that we're getting back to the beginning of UNIX computing--trivial
terminal with display port + sophisticated mainframe doing hard work. But
instead of 1 machine, we have 1000.
Additionally when I think about shipping binary app to the customer and
finding critical bug in an app 3 days later, it gets depressing. So yeah:
web stuff and cloud things can help. For example: the fact Qt comes with a
JavaScript interpreter helps a lot. You just make 1 version: WWW version.
Then you just write a program with WWW applet in QT, copy the .js files to
local filesystem and you're done. Solution ready.

The idea of putting nearly everything on Google is crazy. We need privacy to
a bigger extent like never before, and maybe we should ponder slowing down a
bit, to figure out what the long-term results of transatlantic e-networking.
He's the thing: 90% of people in California coffee shops are workoholics or
iPhone addicts. I don't like that.

Idea with declaring thing to be beta indefinitely is a nice one. Will
remember that.

Honestly and transparency is great, however I don't know how it applies to
Google. Dear Google, I really want "Make sure my e-mails don't appear in
scriptkiddies search result" button to be implemented. I'd like *not* to get
personalized ads based on things which I've sent to my friends. Really.

Worth reading to get a breeze of ideas on how to design your "open"
business.

@@@RIGHT@@@

<iframe src="http://rcm.amazon.com/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=FFFFFF&IS2=1&npa=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=FF0000&t=wojcadamkoszh-20&o=1&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=0061709697" style="width:120px;height:240px;" scrolling="no" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" frameborder="0"></iframe>
