---
title:	The Millionaire Mind
auth:	Thomas J. Stanley
read:	2013-05-15
---





Slightly updated version of the previous masterpiece.

My understanding from the book is that Stanley assisted by his friend picked
3000 households with net worth in range of $1M--$10M and got about 750
replies. Among them very pretty interesting notes..

..on how people from the group get their shoes repaired, instead of thrown
away.

Some pretty interesting obvious stuff is mentioned in this book. For
example: how a gentleman with no college made a very obvious statement: what
sense does it make to enter a business with a lot of competition? Little. He
entered niche business: selling used truck car parts. Sevenfold profit on
each of the part.

His mechanic was earning similar salary to an MD (at the time of writing the
book, I guess?).

The overall conclusion is that there's no relationship between wealth and
how person did at school. Most millionaire weren't top performing students.
Most of them were average.

All millionaires are very careful about picking partners. Physical appeal
matters, but more important is how much support they get while doing risky
stuff. There's a "$100 startup" example mentioned too -- husband decides to
take the risk of not working full-time for some time, while the wife manages
the home budget and supports the household with her salary. He fails for the
1st time, but succeeds the 2nd time and they're done. Working wifes help.

Looks like most of the wealthy people are family guys. Their free time they
spend with their kids and families, not doing too much fancy stuff.

Most of them drive used cars and try to buy used things. Some inherited. If
they decided to invest in physical stuff, it must be things of the highest
quality. If it's furniture, it's either applied-art, or antic furniture kept
in the family for a long time.

Most of the households are run very smartly. Without using credit cards or
running over the limit. Most of them live below-their-means, without
borrowing money.

Interesting point was describing how they actually acquire the real-estate
properties. "If you've paid the asking price for a house, you're not a
millionaire". Unless it's a bargain deal, about which their lawyers and
real-estate agents informed them. Most of them try to bid the lowest
possible price, try to get the house from fore-closure, try to find two
sellers and use one's price to lower the price of the another one. Most of
them try to haggle always.

Really enjoyed reading this book. Unless data is made up, author did an
excellent research and huge amount of work to get a lot of statistics on
wealth presented in a very friendly and readable manner.

I'd recommend to everybody interested in home finances.

@@@RIGHT@@@

<iframe src="http://rcm-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=FFFFFF&IS2=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=FF0000&t=wojcadamkoszh-20&o=1&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=0740718584" style="width:120px;height:240px;" scrolling="no" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" frameborder="0"></iframe>

