---
title:	"The Power of Less"
auth:	 Leo Babauta
read:	2013-05-02
book:	yes
---




Leo's book I really enjoyed. I'm not alone in terms of trying to simplify
things around.

There's SO many approaches.

If you're ever seen me couple of years ago working on my laptop, you'd see
very minimalistic setup. It was FreeBSD-powered laptop, with dwm window
manager, which I still think is the best window manager ever developed and
with lots of work-spaces opened.

However I never really had a need to collect tasks and work on them to
achieve the goal. Things for the university I tried to kept done on time as
they came in to the "in basket", so that I had a chance and time to work on
my "own" thing. For other stuff, which includes mostly Open Source stuff
like FreeBSD and some other minor projects, I never kept track of anything.

Lately (independently from Leo) I start to list my TODO stuff in a file
executed with "tde", which is "to do edit". I see the differences with "tdd"
which is "to do diff". "tdc" commits the task to the list. Basically
everything is Git-based TODO system.

However there are things I should improve. For example: time management.
Basically how geek environments for day-to-day computer work I like, I still
believe Microsoft Outlook's calendar on my office computer is the greatest
thing developed. I just never really got the Google Calendar stuff. Maybe if
somebody shows me nice and standalone Google Calendar client, which I could
keep synchronized. Yes, I know this is certainly possible. But I just never
got real solution as complete as Outlook.

Reminders for meetings and tasks are a very nice thing indeed. And the fact
you can coordinate completion of tasks with other people. You can basically
send a request for a completion of a task, and it'd show up in person's
calendar.

I keep track of my personal TODO lists in my office calendar too. It's just
easier that way. It's a pity I can't freely export my office calendar.

Anyway: Leo does similar things to myself. TODO list present in one file,
keeping the rest of the environment simplified etc.

By doing some additional study I understand he's from a bread of "minimalist
for all cost" people. However, I find it hard leaving in 1 rented room to
have my desk always clean. Stuff yes, gets cluttered, and yes it's my fault,
but basically I feel human being needs some sort of a cache too.

Things go out of the drawers and boxes and land on desk, since you expect
"temporary locality" to happen. So you pick thing X, cache it on your desk,
but due to no flush policy, it remains there. Don't get me wrong--it works
perfecly well for computers, but doesn't work for desks. What desks need is
periodic flush policy, when things come back to boxes and drawers.

Power of habit is something you're accustomed to if you've played musical
instrument ever. Forming good habits is important and will get you further.
Work habits too. If next time I walk to your cube and I'll see you not being
able to copy && paste the block of code in VIM, I'll make you form a habit.
MAKE YOU.

Telling people to go away or clearly stating you have no time to help them
out is very viable option too. When you start working in a company, which
is unlike school, you must start understanding people around you are hyena
present around to steal your time. The less you commit to, the more likely
is that you'll me a schedule, since things slip in and schedules fall apart.
So with enough backup time and less tasks, it's likely you'll be more
creditable for other people, since you'll be actually accomplishing your
tasks.


Note on slowing down -- over high-school, where the biggest improvement in
my technical skills happened, I had an amazing habits of coming back from
school and taking a nap on the floor, with music in my years. Really unique
feeling of just lying and being able to enjoy bass drum double-strokes at
the tempo of 240bpm. That's when Virgil Donati's music started to kick in.

I HIGHLY recommend this book. Really, just go and buy it. And read it,
chapter by chapter. Really great complementary material for "Getting things
done".

@@@RIGHT@@@

<iframe src="http://rcm.amazon.com/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=FFFFFF&IS2=1&npa=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=FF0000&t=wojcadamkoszh-20&o=1&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=1401309704" style="width:120px;height:240px;" scrolling="no" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" frameborder="0"></iframe>
