The more time I spend on my work and toy projects, I realize the technical
aspect of work is simple. We could say: very simple.

Computers and programming simple? How so? All software made-man say working
on a software problem is hard.

Well, we all know software is complex. Try to manage to mundle through dark
C++ code of an unknown library. Then try to get it to work on your computer
first. See if it's working in this limited, strictly controller environment.
Heck--without users other than you, it really is a matter of making it do
something. Then maybe try to compile it on other computer. Does it work? Of
course not. Understand why it's crashing. Write correct program, and see it
failing.

Wise hardware guys say that hardware is, of course, harder. Hardware is
tricky, since distinguishing working from not working from not working as
expected can be challenging too. Basically if you have a complex CPU, which
according to the specification should act well and do specific thing (think
of a specific memory access type), but does something completely different,
is harder. Zillions of possible reasons: broken power supply, broken board,
broken software running on the hardware. Software? Yes, software--lots of
software. Some written by people who have never really understood the
underlying hardware.

There's a 2nd aspect of projects, which isn't at all technical. So called
social aspect can be much, much more challenging. But let skip computers and
work here. The thing that I see pure analogy from is real-life. I
experienced that not so long ago. Lets call it "6-week long Project Visitor".

This is when you're meant to live in one limited space with 1 person.
Experience of this kind I learn

I knew that for a long time now, since I have always been impressed in by
industry giants building huge systems: FreeBSD and Linux from the Open
Source arena, and IBM and Microsoft from the commercial arena.

They say turning software program to software product is hard. Apparently it
consumes order of magnitude more time and order of magnitude more skills.
Count lines of code, multiplied by lines of documentation plus hours of
support calls and you'll figure it out (I asked how much $$$ is the support
call at work, and they said it's counted in hundreds of dollars).

