Anyway, I'll make a long story short to not bore you to death: I don't
remember when I achieved anything or learned valuable stuff 
was in times when Internet in Europe was really expensive.  Sitting on
websites or IRCs was just freaking pricey, so books were the rescue. The
conclusion is that my current knowledge didn't come from ready-to-use,
high-quality classes on the university and it wasn't easy. It was pretty
hard, and there was lots of pain related with it.
Books ain't cheap, y'all know that, and this is where I got most of the
knowledge from.

I don't know why should I stop now. Over the university, when it was clear
there won't be too much benefit for me from all these Java Hibernate and SQL
frameworks, I started doing some hardware bits and soon realized doing
software won't be enough for me, since still under this bare-metal surface
sits something that can actually be described in the Vim's window and
simulated, and synthesized.

So this is how I started thinking about hardware companies as my potential
employers, since you didn't have to be too smart to understand that hardware
company is this kind of business that requires lots of low-level software
and assembly language c0ders.

So, let me tell you -- in order to get me interested in something, since I
wasn't too much into anything, my father took me to his school gymnastics
hall at the age of 12, where the computer-junk market took place, and where
lots of local H@ck@s used to meet. We're talking about real H@ck@s --
long-hair-washed-once-per-month-since-once-per-month-is-enough H@ck@s. This
is pretty much how I, idol-motivated lizard, ended up having long hair too,
but that's a completely different story.

This was pretty much the most significant event in my "computer life" now,
that I'm connecting the dots while sitting with a coffee.

More or less anonymous Michal (hey you, if you read this, please know I send
serious Thank You) gave me at that time several choices: "either graphics or
programming".  "Either Visual Basic or Turbo Pascal". Either "Windows or
GNU/Linux".

This is how before I turned 19 I was taking care of 9 remote FreeBSD
machines, some of them serving Internet and content to several LANS, doing
scripting and doing some "low-paid" consulting in terms of security and
writing random ANSI C kernel module for FreeBSD for fun and profit, since I
knew device drivers and low-level programming was what I was going to do as a
paid job.

Once I even worked for a porn site, where paid videos ware delivered through
the UNIX networking daemon which a friend of mine wrote. I audited and
improved it.  (They were very happy with me; they even proposed an addition
of "security auditing" to their technological portfolio). Their business
failed miserably, but experience was really valuable.  So here I was, with
an experience working for a porn-on-demand company at the age below 20.

(now if you're a recruiter you probably figure out I studied computers too,
you will pick this post, print it, stamp it to whatever you have there on
the other side and will throw lots of "C++ constructor/destructor" and
"template" questions and will want to have me write {} :: [] and others,
while remembering that somewhere there is this thing that requires you to
have a whitespace " ", since they just haven't figured out how to write this
one neat, very-useful-once-in-your-lifetime feature too well of the C++ standard and
they made " " be necessary in this single place)

Well -- I'm sorry. Once I understood C++ I knew I don't want to work with
C++ never ever, so no question from C++ from me.

Looks like there are three groups of people. And by the way -- honestly -- I
don't think about anybody in particular while writing this, so if you eat a
lunch with me, don't ask me which group are you in. This is my general
general understanding of big companies, correlated with numerous other
people [from these companies] and friends and collegues etc.

0. *Nice human being* -- due to the nature of life of character, you just
   work for a company. Good employee. Happy family member, maybe even
   father. Haven't fallen into trap of being interested in what you do, so
   after working hours you might even have a hobby not related with what you
   do at work.  True value of the company, that's to the steady factor of
   work done. My dear team, if you read this, I know you all are here!
   ...while I'm not.

1. *young fawn* -- big company is cool, since you can work more in the
   night, wheeee! You can break things for free and people don't blame you
   since you're young and stupid Whee!  Put interns in this box.
   Internships worked excellently for me, since this kind of feeling gives
   you lots of freedom. New College Grads, fresh out of college, without
   internships.  Interns and NCGs are good, since these guys generate
   revenue, since this is the group which does real work, which does actual
   stuff that nobody else is willing to do.

2. *Bearded guys* -- if Captain Nemo were to step out of the Nautilus, this
   is how he'd like. They can do whatever they want, how they want for
   anybody, for how much they want. No veto. Hawaiian shirt is a must. Pen
   in the chest-pocket isn't uncommon. As are leftovers of your yesterdays
   lunch, about which nobody cares, since they know you're responsible for
   X, where X is something your company doesn't exist without. OK, maybe
   that's a bit too much, but generally I see people doing technically
   interesting stuff only if they have 20 years of experience.

3. *gray mass* -- not sure why and not sure what. Goes to job and prunes
   list of tasks lined up in queue. No questions asked. PERFECT employee for
   a big corporation (longer queue is better). Think of EA in 2005. If
   you've reached so far I doubt you're in this category, unless my writing
   style with all these cute mistakes and lack of articles is appealing to
   you. Otherwise, you haven't reached that far if you're within gray mass
   since its members just don't read un-selectively; anything above
   expectation isn't read at all Let me me tell you why.

If you enter already as a member of Nice Human Being group, you're just
fine. You don't need to do anything and you're pretty damn lucky.

Group number 3 doesn't have to do anything either. That's all!

*Faws* and *Bearded guys* are the most problematic, since from what I see
there's 20 years of difference in terms of experience and simply there are
very little structures built in big corporations to have this age and
knowledge gap closed.

Where products are built with blood
and pain, and fists flying around, where the leader is one, everything is
decided based on technical merits, and finally, where little Fawns can
actually learn something from seniorZ. I find 15-minute chats with
advanced people mean more than any other communication with people who just
aren't yet there, or never will, because they have different targets in
their life.

It's
like the productivity rule of 90% of work being delivered by 10% of people,
and one top-1% of people being 10x better than people following.
The only way to get to this 1% without 30 years of work is to get to the
environment where you're forced to work with senior members. But I haven't
figured out how to do that. And whether it's still possible in the age,
where CPU is modeled in millions lines of code, and not a single human being
understands what's really going on underneath all these abstraction layers.

