There's a lot of people telling me:

I can't stand Microsoft products.

Or just saying all sorts of non-technical stuff based on their personal
opinions. I was that way too. So please all you guys our there know:

>	I don't hate you. Been there, done that.

But here's the thing:

__We were and are just plain wrong__

I grew up using UNIX systems--mostly FreeBSD, but also Linux occasionally.
What attracted me was the engineering talent, found easily within the
community of open-source developers.

These were the times where I could easily spend 3 days debugging problems
with my Firewire connection, to be able to hook up two computers together,
just to be able to do 1:1 remote kernel debugging and track problems with my
sound card driver.

Times have shifted and I feel I no longer have a desire to spend my time on
getting basic things working. I just assume some basic things should just
work, since ... these are basic things.

However as much as open-source provides a great and excellent learning
platform for young programmers, I don't feel it's providing good platform
for users..

I use Microsoft products at work. The first day I started to work at my current job,
I had a chance to order one of these expensive Dell servers with Linux
system pre-installed. But I realized that this would provide little to no
learning benefit for myself, and just for the sake of knowing your
competition, I felt using Microsoft will lead to some positive experiences.

I wasn't wrong.

And I don't regret this decision. Quite reverse: I started to appreciated
Microsoft engineers more and this appreciation is still growing.
Now you may start to think what I'm saying here is an example of lunacy.

Maybe it is. Who knows?

On my personal server I basically use two very effective mechanisms for
checking e-mail. One of them is to make a SSH redirect which takes no time
to start, since it's 1 aliased shell command. I used it on daily basis, when
I want my Opera to see my remote  IMAP folders. The second is based on SSH,
when I connect to the remote machine's terminal and I start mutt.
Both mechanisms are equally productive. With Opera's and mutt's
key-shortcuts performing typically day-to-day operations is very feasible.
'g' in Opera, TAB in mutt. The problem is that arriving e-mail requires
typically some action. Action can be anything from (1) just reply (2) reply
and set a reminder for related action (3) do something more (e.g.: find an
answer and reply).

Here's where the fragmentation kicks in.

And neither mutt nor Opera have a really good capability of handling this. I
can't really set a reminder for the next action to be taken.

So honestly -- iPod Nano which I got was to get the same kind of feeling;
expand the way I think about physical products and customer electronics and
design.

With the exception of not being able to actually use iPOD (thank you
VMWare!) I'm happy with it. GUI, with some problems and glitches, still is
very good.

If I ever get a Macbook, it'll be because it's different, and it's pretty
damn popular, and popularity doesn't come from nothing.
You can't make milions of people buy overpriced product just because it
looks pretty.

So yeah, I'm a big fan of esseys by Joel Spolsky and Raymond Chen and now
that I work with huge codebases in a big corporation I understand nearly
everything on why Microsoft does what it does. And without hearing them
saying something bad about *nix systems let me tell you something:

__Some things about *nix are pretty depressing__

The problem comes from complete lack of standards and complete lack of
pushing force (money), which resulted in dozens of dozens of people trying
to achieve something, unsuccessfuly and making other people do it
(successfuly).

Example is UNIX GUIs.

This is the topic that really pisses me off, since lack of cohension in the
community resulted in lots of weirdos hacking something in the basements and
all this crappy GUIs out there ... which just don't do the job.

So here I am, watching random photos in the Internet and hoping to do funny,
sarcastic, very inappropriate copy&paste of the image for my female friend.
And I just *can't* do it under *nix system.

Copy & paste doesn't exist under UNIX.

Now let me explain you.

Windows architecture mic
