---
title:	"101 Secrets of Highly Effective Speakers"
author: "Wojciech Adam Koszek"
abstract: >
  Tips and tricks for speakers. Judging by the number of notes I put down
  after original reading, I suspect I should revisit this book at some
  point.
address: "East Palo Alto, CA"
tags:
- books
auth:	Caryl Rae Krannich
read:	2012-12-25
ads:
- <iframe src="http://rcm-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=FFFFFF&IS2=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=FF0000&t=wojcadamkoszh-20&o=1&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=1570232296" style="width:120px;height:240px;" scrolling="no" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" frameborder="0"></iframe>
spellcheck-allow:
- "nd"
- "xAA"
---
This is kind of interesting book about what to do and what to avoid while
speaking to a large groups of people.

Posture, appearance and diction is important to be well understood. Seeing a
speaker with a suit, or in general: dress well and clean, gives much better
impression than seeing somebody with a own, worn T-shirt.

Content is what matters. Every speech should have an objective, and this
objective should be clearly stated to the audience.

Use of visual aids is permitted, and advised. However too much visual
content can lead to audience distraction.

Preparation is the key. When going to the presentation, be prepared to have
redundant copies of all possible utilities which you might want to use.
Projector? Have projector's light-bulbs? Laser pointer? 4xAA batteries.
Laptop? Have everything backed up 3 times, and presentation saved in 3
different formats.

Stress is the best to leave at home. The thing is that starting is the
hardest. After starting to talk, withing approximately 1--2 minutes you'll
feel more relaxed and prepared for giving a speech.

Be prepared for occasional interruptions. Since audience is unpredictable,
it's very likely you'll get interrupted with a random, not necessarily smart
question or suggestion. Don't let it trick you. You must end up answering
quickly and keep your presentation going.

Record yourself. Be it an audio or a video. Treat the recording as a
feedback loop and try to improve elements which you think are wrong. And
perform as many times as necessary after watching and polish you
presentation. Have somebody else watch it with you and accept constructive
criticism.

While talking to people, try to keep eye contact. Do not use trick of
looking 3 inches above recipient's head. Just look into eyes of the audience
members and try to give all of the people some of the attention.

Walk around to keep people focused on you. Moving around also helps the
presentation be less boring, since majority of people just stand in one
place from the presentation start to the end.

I learned some new stuff from this book. During my university years, I gave
lots of lots of presentations, and I must say that relaxation in front of
the people comes with practice. University is much more comfortable than an
unknown audience, of course. With unknown audience I've noticed 2 kinds of
people: those who are jealous because of you, and not them, presenting and
those who are thankful for presenting, since they'd never ever want to be on
your place. The 1st group of people is hard to please, however just being
polite and not reacting to occasional interruptions is the best policy that
works for me. The 2nd group doesn't cause problems. I've noticed in
countries like Poland people somehow keep questions until after the
presentation is over. Some people may also want to ask you some stuff in
person. Lots of times I got congratulations from one group of people and
complaints from another. I think this is how the world is: many people, many
points of view and you have to cope with it.
