---
title:  "256 blog hacks"
author: "Wojciech Adam Koszek"
description: >
  My first gig as a full-book book reviewer. You can learn what my opinion
  on Yegor's book is.
address: "Menlo Park, CA"
tags:
- books
categories: books
read:	2017-01-07
ads:
- <a href="https://www.amazon.com/256-Bloghacks-Yegor-Bugayenko/dp/1537688669/ref=as_li_ss_il?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1485649130&sr=1-1-fkmr1&keywords=blog+hacks+256&linkCode=li2&tag=wkoszek08-20&linkId=2d749042a11788d750b6b8152ccb67df" target="_blank"><img border="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=1537688669&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=wkoszek08-20" ></a><img src="https://ir-na.amazon-adsystem.com/e/ir?t=wkoszek08-20&l=li2&o=1&a=1537688669" width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" />
spellcheck-allow:
- 
---


You created a blog, but it sucks? It has beautiful minimized HTML, great
JavaScript and CSS and renders flawlessly on iOS 6. The problem is that
nobody but you is accessing your blog?

Exactly.

I made my blog in 2012, but didn't really think about it much. I restarted
the efforts in 2015 and 2016, but had moderate success (hundreds visitors
"spiking" when I published something, and then traffic dying out after 2
days)

So that was my motivation.

When I learned Yegor is writing a book on blogging, I decided to sign up as
a reviewer. Being reviewer is a very good deal: you make notes which youâ€™d
make anyway, but you are heard by an author, who may care more than when the
book is finished and in print. And you get a free book of $40 value. 

General opinion

Book is definitely worth reading. If you buy it for $40, you'll be among 1%
of people who actually care about the quality of the content which they
produce, since people like that like to bounce ideas from each other, and
read books, articles, magazines. If you want to join group of such people,
go and and get this book on Amazon. I doubt you'll regret it.

Longer summary

You'll learn about modern realities of technical blogging from him.  Yegor
has some success with blogging, getting around 2000 visitors a month. I
think it's a good number to strive for. It would be cool to get some
screenshots of his audience and the cross-section about who they are. That
would be interesting. It's not in a book though. But that's fine.

He used some tricks: tried to use paid Twitter Ads to get users to subscribe
to his mailing list, and the rest of users he gathered organically. I think
it's fair, if it really works, i.e.: if these "subscribers" and visitors
aren't bots and they're real people, then that's fine.

The experience taught me to not rely on information without cross-checking
and assuming that whatever someone tells you it's 50% true. Think of me as
an untrustful fox which got caught in a trap multiple times. It's because
people like to "bump up" their profile in front of each other, and while I
don't know if this touches Yegor too, I do believe the book would benefit
from more factual proofs and information deep-down into the details of how
it actually looks like from the author's side.

There are some contradictory pieces in the book, and also a lot of it are
opinions. Since I've been interested in the topic of growing your audience
recently, I've researched some other resources on blogging ("Technical
blogging" for example, and "Simple Programmer" training) before reading
"Blog hacks 256". Whichever expert you talk to, they all have slightly
different opinion. Let me skip these differences. The common theme for
success is: niche Regularity High-quality content Mailing list "Digest" sent
out every week/2 weeks/month summarizing what you've done

I disagree with Yegor that blogging about software engineering must be done
"technically", with static generator, debugging of HTML and CSS etc. I don't
think people care. The best blogs which I benefited from in my career looked
terrible, in fact. Example: old (pre-2017) version of JoelOnSoftware.com You
don't have to introduce Joel to anyone in the software community. He wrote
his blog with a terribly old software he could no longer built on modern
*Windows*, so he used a VM to access it. It was a technical ghetto, had tons
of ads on the right side of the blog. But I grew up on Internet: my mind has
an ad blocker built-in, and Joel's content was great. I kept reading post
after post. I really didn't care whether it's WordPress or Jekyll.

Funny is that his experience with proofreaders was exactly the same as mine.
Worked with 2 good people and both of them disappeared pretty much in the
same time. The difference I'm doing is that I'm trying to get $5/500 words
deals, paying $10-$15/post for English correction. 

Some of the stuff Yegor mentions about writing is actually from "On Writing
Well". Another really cool book is "On writing" by Stephen King. I haven't
read any of his books, but like the guy during interviews on YouTube.
