---
title:	"The Millionaire Next Door"
auth:	Thomas J. Stanley,  William D. Danko
read:	2012-07-27
book:	yes
---





Full title "The Millionaire Next Door : The Surprising Secrets of America's Wealthy"

This is basically a mix of psychology, sociology, economy and business. I
expected beginning will only be interesting, but this book positively
surprised me. This book is an amazing chunk of research on social and
material relationships among wealth Americans.

By wealthy people authors consider $1M--$10M of accumulated wealth. Study
conducted over several years (since 1980). Book was published 1996, however
the version I listened to refered to 2005 too, so it was likely an updated edition.

Immigrants and 1st-generation born US immigrants are most likely to get
really wealthy. This book states  Russians are 1st on the list of
millionaires. Germans look really poor -- 1/5th of millionaires are Germans.
It's unlikely wealthy guys will be well dressed (1/4 of millionaires never
spent more than $289 for a suit). Nobody will wear expensive watch. Most
won't wear a watch, ever. They won't drive good cars either. If they drive a
car, it'll be at least 3 year old. It's likely it'll be 8 year old or more.
Most guys marry once. Most married couples never divorce and most stay
together till death. Average lifetime of a wealthy millionaire is 75.5 year.
Ladies live 9 years longer (good for you!) Most guys marry girls from
normal, non-millionaire families and marry girls without hyper-spending
habits. Most marry frugal ladies. Most frugal ladies which they marry hold a
domestic budget with strict spending plan. Couples live in 1 house most of
their lifetime, or at least 20 years. Most people don't take loans, and most
live below their financial status. Most guys do really crappy stuff, that
nobody else wants to do, ever.

...

As I said--pretty impressive chunk of research.

@@@RIGHT@@@

<iframe src="http://rcm.amazon.com/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=FFFFFF&IS2=1&npa=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=FF0000&t=wojcadamkoszh-20&o=1&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=1589795474" style="width:120px;height:240px;" scrolling="no" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" frameborder="0"></iframe>
