---
title:	"Google Summer of Code &mdash; how proposals are evaluated"
auth:	"Wojciech Koszek"
ads:
- <iframe src="http://rcm.amazon.com/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=FFFFFF&IS2=1&npa=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=FF0000&t=wojcadamkoszh-20&o=1&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=031609997X" style="width:120px;height:240px;" scrolling="no" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" frameborder="0"></iframe>
---

In the previous post I explained the motivation of GSoC and the state of
things nowadays with regards to how it helps FreeBSD.

I guess I must explain in a bit more detailed way how evaluations are done,
since it can not entirely clear.

***Introduction***

You'll find an insight on how the evaluation of Google Summer of Code took place.

Or at least: explanation how I did it.

Please note what within [FreeBSD](http://www.freebsd.org) we had several
developers with an administrator's role and they were reviewing as well.
Their process for looking at these proposals might have differed. I don't
know.

***Skimming***

**Quick glance at the list** is the first think I do (according to [Jacob
Nielsen](http://www.useit.com) this is how [we all do
it](http://www.useit.com/alertbox/9710a.html). So you skim over 33 items,
you see those which doesn't make sense at all. Just to make sure you're
right in mentally *nuking* these that you think aren't decent, I opened it
in separate tabs in the browser. I had 99.99% success rate in judging
irrelevant ones. This is due to simple reason: some of the proposals seem to
be generated from Google. **If you want to be accepted in ***any*** project
DON'T pick anything from Google**. Don't re-paste anything from the Internet.
Don't republish stuff other people did. **This really must be your
proposal**. So the irrelevant ones got marked as "non-acceptable" right
away. By the way: they stayed that way, since most people reviewed those
too. So let me make it clear once again: **Don't waste your time on
submitting junk: it for SURE will be ignored**. This means: no money for
junk.

***Quick selection based on my knowledge***

Nobody is an expert on everything. I'm no different. Basically I know
nothing about BSD text processing tools, and since this proposal showed up,
I knew I'm the bad person to review it. However, we've had 2 of those, and
since we decided not to accept duplicates (not to have two people working on
the same project) I glanced at both of them quickly.

One was brief and lacked details. Had poor formatting. Was sort of done very
quickly. Was a hack.  Obviously, if you want to show your real initiative, I
expect you provide something in a readable form. So this really doesn't have
to be PDF produced with QuarkXPress -- just do your best, use [Google
Melange](http://www.google-melange.com) formatting and you'll be just fine.

***Deeper understanding***

Some projects really interested me. I started to study them in more detail.
I skipped student information, since it wasn't relevant for me at this
stage. I was interested if the idea is OK and whether there are some
practical steps and implementation schedule for the proposal.

Unfortunately some had smarter form of spam embedded too. These projects got
nuked too, thus no further time wasted for me.

We're basically talking about around 22 project proposals already. It's 66%
of submitted  proposals in total.

Typical proposal must have couple of elements (I think these are imposed by
the proposal submission form provided by Google). I must said Google did a
good job, since the form had enough information to make reading worth its
time.

Every student provided:

 1. Name, Surname
 2. E-mail and phone number
 3. Short bio
 4. Resume
 5. Availability

So Name and Surname got skipped, so did the e-mail and phone. Short bio was
important for me, somehow.

And I want to put emphasis on **short**. I'd really like Google to put some
form of a limit (100 words) on what should show up here. Some were several
A4 pages long. Well, honestly, I didn't read it. I also skimmed over the
keywords in your text.

Some proposals struck my attention: why on Earth people submitting proposals
to the [FreeBSD Project](http://www.freebsd.org) mention Linux only? I mean
some of them had **not a single word** about FreeBSD. For me this is the
sign you didn't study too well for this years GSOC and you don't want to be
accepted, since it looks like you've picked an idea from the [FreeBSD ideas
list](http://www.freebsd.org/projects/ideas/) (which you have managed to
find somehow) and without knowing what FreeBSD is you've submitted this
stuff.

Anyway, we had busy student-professionals applying too. Personally, I would
have picked people like but. My reasoning is that if I see somebody working
with computers professionally, it may mean the understanding of the whole
GSOC is much better, responsibility is much bigger and that the likelihood
of successful project's completion is higher. However, after some
discussions we agreed that people with really limited time spent on the
project are kinda risky. You know, when you can spend only 4 hours per week
on the project it's clear isn't not going to be finished on time.

We've had one person, whose proposal was really good, but the gentleman
applied to other projects too, with equally good proposals, and on the way
of evaluating his ideas, he decided to pick another project. Google
basically doesn't let you to apply for multiple projects, so if you do so,
you'll have to decide later. So to save your time: **Before picking FreeBSD,
just glance at other projects and verify you really want FreeBSD** This will
save lots of time to everybody.

I hope this will help you understand what is important in the proposal for
2013 Google Summer of Code (there will be next Google Summer of Code,
right?)

