---
title:	"How to Delegate"
auth:	Dick Lohr
read:	2013-03-11
book:	yes
---




*Full title: How to Delegate Work and Ensure It's Done Right.*

I picked one of my weak points and decided to see what other people can tell
me about it.

Lohr's audio program was pretty good. He mentions one of the key points of
delegation, which includes: delegation as a key of making really big
projects possible. The thing I typically have a problem is is delegation of
stuff which I know I can do well by myself.

The bad thing is that once I'm set on the model of how given activity must
be performed or I know how the method of achieving the goal should look
like, it's quite hard to convince me otherwise.

I think there's the biggest conflict in delegation, where there's little
pressure on a method, and where the push is toward expected result.

Seeing people achieving the goal with incorrect method is kind of painful
for me, so ... oh well. I think I'll just keep trying to apply "7 habits..."
and "How to win friends.." approaches and trying hard to adjust other people
methods to mine. But, of course, only when I know my method is better.

Paying attention on a method makes sense to me, since I think some results
can not be achieved when doing thing wrong, just like it's hard to get
perfect double stroke roll without holding drum sticks correctly.

Interesting concept in delegation is holding people accountable, which in
turn includes making sure the goal is properly understood. By properly I
mean: both sides see the problem and goal in the same way.

After delegation of the task, the concept of rephrasing it once again for
clarify was being touched. This is something I already apply on a daily
basis and which I see multiple advanced engineers use.

The idea of asking people to do it is new to me. Honestly what the program
mentions is very hard to achieve. I spotted people get very sensitive when
there's the smallest doubt about their understanding of what you told them.
In other words: like a dog people smell the doubt in them and start to apply
defensive mechanisms.

If you're a Polish immigrant abroad, you have a strong competitive
advantage--after phrasing the goal, you can easily blame eventual lack of
the clarity in your crappy English, so basically get the goal rephrased for
free. Whooo!!

Anyway--I'd qualify this audio program as a positive addition in case you
happen to work on bigger projects in your career.


@@@RIGHT@@@

<iframe src="http://rcm.amazon.com/e/cm?lt1=_blank&bc1=FFFFFF&IS2=1&npa=1&bg1=FFFFFF&fc1=000000&lc1=FF0C00&t=wojcadamkoszh-20&o=1&p=8&l=as4&m=amazon&f=ifr&ref=ss_til&asins=1933328002" style="width:120px;height:240px;" scrolling="no" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" frameborder="0"></iframe>

